Welcome back everyone to the solutions lecture for the umpire exercises.
Let's go to the notebook and go through the solutions.
OK here I am at the numpad exercises notebook the very first task was the important umpires.
We went through that in the previous lecture so hopefully figure that out next was to create an array
of 10 zeros.
Remember that you can just say and zeros and then call 10 here.
That creates an array of 10 zeros.
Let's zoom in one more level here.
We can really see it.
Next was to create an array of 10 ones.
So one way to do that is just say and P the ones shift then turn.
And then you have the array of 10 ones the next one is create an array of 10 fives.
Now obviously there's no MP that 5s.
Boy you can do just say.
And that one's 10.
And then use broadcasting to multiply it by five.
And there you have your array of 10 5s.
The next question was create an array of the integers from 10 to 50.
So the way we can do that is say p a range and then we want to go from 10 to 51 because we want to get
one extra essence who actually want 50 included.
And this sort of formatting here is just because I'm zoomed in so much if I zoom out you'll see the
format starts to fix itself.
OK let's zoom back in the next one was create an array of all the even integers from 10 to 50 so that's
easy with unpure range you just need to say 10:51 and then specify that you want the step size to be
2.
And then you have the array 10:12 etc. all the way to 50.
Next we wanted to create a three by three matrix of values ranging from zero to 8.
You can see here we had zero to eight.
The easiest way to do this is just with the reshape method using derange will say and pure range and
we'll go from zero to nine zeros a default start.
So I just need to say nine here and then I will reshape this to be a three by three Matrix.
And there you have your answer.
Next we wanted to create a three by three identity matrix for that.
All you do is say I 3 that creates the three by three I and see matrix.
Next was to create or use them PI to generate a random number between 0 and 1.
So for that we can say P that random thought Rand and if you remember this gives you ran the values
in the given shape from 0 to 1.
So we're going to say skimming one number there and there's your random number.
Next was to use them PI to generate an array of 25 random numbers sampled from a standard normal distribution.
So the way you do that is you just say N.P. thought random and we call Rande and here and then we won
25 of those.
That gives you 25 numbers.
Obviously you won't get the same numbers that I do.
Next we create the following matrix.
And let me zoom out so we can see this properly formatted.
So I want you to create this following matrix or here.
And it goes from zero point zero one in step sizes of points or 1 all the way to 1.
There's a couple of ways you could do this one way you can do it is the following.
We can say and P-doc arr. and I'm going to start from 1 and go to 101.
So I'll start with this and this gives me 1 to 100.
What I couldn't do is say divide this by a hundred and I can see now.
Give me point 0 1 point 0 2 etc. all the way to 1.0.
But right now this is just a single dimension.
Those are the brackets here versus the double set of brackets here.
So what I want to do first is reshape this.
So I'm going to say reshape this into a 10 by 10 matrix.
And now I have the exact same matrix that I have here.
So again 1 to 100 divided by 100.
But I want to reshape it to a 10 by 10 first.
So matches this output exactly next was create an array of 20 linearly spaced points between 0 and 1
to that we'll just say P Lance Bass go from 0 to 1.
Give me 20 of those.
And there's a result.
Up next we wanted to use pi indexing and selection.
So we start with this particular matrix this math and P that arrange it goes from 1 to 25 and it's a
5 by 5 matrix.
So the first thing I want to do is grab this matrix right here and zoom in one level it goes 12 to 15
17 to 20 20 to 25 which is basically right here these three subsections of those rows.
So we can do in order to get that is the following we'll say given the matrix and the rows you want
is starting at 2 all the way to the end of the columns you want is starting at index 1 all the way to
the end.
And that gives you back this matrix right here.
Next one we want to just grab the singular number 20.
So if we take a look at the Matrix again we can see the singular value 20 is located right here.
So in order to grab it we just want to say give me the number at index row three and column index four.
And then as you back the number 20.
Next we wanted to do was grab this subsection of the array to 7 12.
So if we take a look at our matrix again we get to 7 12 and where are they the right here 2 7 and 12.
So we're going to end up doing is the following.
As far as the rows are concerned I want to get everything up to and including row index 3 and the columns
I want starting at index 1 and going up Toobin not including two.
So the reason we do that is this is basically the same way of saying the first indexed or index 1 column
here.
If I just say the following one then I get this back in a flat form.
So if you want this exact same format we have to do is use a slice notation.
So notice the difference here.
Well it's still the same data.
The formatting is different.
So it's one column two instead of just one here.
All right.
The next question was to grab this Cerezo Let's take a look at our matrix again.
So this looks like just the bottom row.
So in order to do that the way we can do is just say get me row everything for every column.
So row for everything every column.
That's how it is.
Next one if we take a look at the map again.
16:21 So it's just the bottom two.
So we're going to say give me rose 3 up to index five.
We can actually say even all the way to the end here and then we'll grab every column from that now
returns back the same result.
Now I want to do the following.
Get the sum of all the values in the map.
That's actually quite simple.
You need to say as math that some execute that.
And that sums up everything in the matrix to get the standard deviation.
Hopefully we're able to figure out through some exploring using tab that it's just going to be SDD for
standard deviation and then we have 7.2 on one.
OK and the final question that was not the bonus question was to get the sum of all the columns in math.
The result should look like this.
The way we do that if we take a look at Matt we can actually call Matt thought some and we have an access
argument that we can provide where the access argument will indicate whether you actually want to sum
it along an axis.
So if I say is equal to zero I get back this result right here 55 60 65 and if I say x is equal to 1
this will actually sum along this axis that sums every value in the rows together.
So this might be a little confusing at first but the notation of Zura and 1 It comes from the fundamental
shape tuple.
So if you take a look at your shape you have an index at zero and an index at one where 0 represents
the rows and one represents the columns.
So that's where those access numbers are coming from 0 and 1.
And then we call a function such as some and you provided the access argument you're basically indicating
which access do you want to execute this along if you don't do anything.
You say none.
It's going to sum everything together.
But if you say something like access equal to zero.
Remember that stands for the rows but it's going to do is run that function along the rows.
So it's going to say 1 6 11 16 21 that all sums up to 55.
This is a little unintuitive to think about at first because you may think that you want to sum the
rows you would say X is zero but it's really what they mentioned you want to run this along so you want
to run it along the rows you want to run it along the columns then you would say x is equal to 1.
And that would sum up essentially what is a rose but it's running the some along the columns.
Finally the bonus question.
So we worked a lot of random data.
How do you actually ensure it's always the same random numbers.
You can say the random seed and this will allow you to set a seed for the random number generator.
So if you set the seed to 101 and then you ask for any random some random integer just one of them you
will end up getting the exact same result.
Now if you the brunt of this multiple times you'll still get a different result every time but you'll
get the same result in the same order.
That idea if you set your seed to 101.
So sometimes we'll set seeds in order for you to get the same random numbers that I do.
So keep in mind if you're Rissi the seed.
That's what I'm doing here.
So if you ever need to kind of reset your see just run that cell again and you can see we always get
back 0.5 1:06 as long as I run my seed right for that.
OK.
Thanks everyone.
And let's head over to the next section we'll discuss pantless.